You've now got one publisher and two listeners.
Let's now try to emit another event by restarting the publisher.
So I'm going to put in an RC hit Enter, and then I'm going to see two console logs, one from each,
the listeners.
It looks like they both received that identical event, the one with the sequence number of 52.
So we now have two of these listeners.
They both receive the exact same piece of information.
And so presumably inside of any normal application, if this was a real app, they would both run some
processing on that event.
Now, quick question for you.
If these truly are identical services, just multiple copies or two instances of the same service,
would sending them both the same exact event present an issue?
Well, maybe.
Let's think back to the earlier project we worked on inside this course.
I'm going to open up my code editor very quickly.
Back on that blog project directory.
Okay.
So you might remember working on the blog project inside of here, we allowed users to create posts
and comments.
One big problem we ran into was making sure that we could make one single request and get all of our
posts and all of our comments all inside of one request.
To allow for that, we created something called the query service.
And inside the query service we had some code that would receive events.
We then processed all those events inside of this handle event function.
We had some code inside there to handle post created, comment created and comment updated.
But there's one event type that I want to focus on in great detail.
The comment created event.
So whenever we got an event of type comment created, we took a look at the ID of that incoming event
or the post ID in this case.
We found the post that we had previously saved.
We then took a look at all the comments that we had associated with it, and then we pushed in a brand
new object representing that comment.
Now for a second, let's just imagine that we were not storing these posts in memory.
Let's imagine instead that we are storing these posts inside of some kind of MongoDB database or some
other similar kind of database.
So let's imagine what would happen if we ran this code right here.
Or something like that.
On two separate instances of this query service.
Well, we would take the incoming event.
We would pull off the ID content and status, and then we would add that in as a brand new comment inside
of our list of comments.
So what would happen if we essentially ran that line of code twice?
Well, very simple.
We would end up with the same exact comment twice inside this comments array.
So very frequently.
We do not want to allow an incoming event to go off to every copy of every service that we have.
So in other words, if we've got multiple copies or multiple instances of the same service, usually
we want to make sure that an incoming event is only going to go to one of them.
So either this first copy of it right here or this first copy of it over here.
So how can we do that?
Well, there's something built into that streaming server that's going to make this very easy.
It's something called a queue group.
Queue groups are something that are going to be created inside of a channel.
So at this point, we have a channel called Ticket Colon created inside this channel.
We are going to create a queue group.
We can have multiple groups associated with one channel.
So inside of this channel, we'll have our list of cue groups and we're going to give it some specific
name.
It can be anything we want to name it.
It just has to be some thing that kind of more or less makes sense to us.
So let's imagine that inside of here, we create a cue group called simply My Cue Group.
We're then going to make sure that our order service, every instance of the order service, creates
a subscription and joins that Q group.
Like so.
Now whenever we get an event coming into the ticket created channel that streaming is going to take
a look at all the different groups we have.
It's then going to more or less randomly select one of the members out of every one of these groups
and send the event to only one of those members.
So in this case, because both copies of our order service are members of my Q group, that streaming
server is going to take the event and send it off to only this service or potentially only that service
right there.
Now, just to be clear, we can still have other services that are not a member of this specific group.
So let's imagine that at some point in time in the future, maybe we have some other service, some
third service.
This can have a subscription of its own.
That is just listening to general events coming out of ticket created.
It does not have to be a member of that group.
So now whenever we have an event come in, that streaming server is going to take the event and it's
going to send off to either that service or that service because they are both members of that same
group.
But then any other service that is just listening to the overall channel will also receive a copy of
the event.
So we can really think of cue groups as limiting the number of times we send out an event to just members
of that group.
So how do we set up a coup group?
Well, fortunately, it is really, really easy.
Back inside my editor, I'm going to go to our listener file.
So here's listener us right here.
I'm going to find where we create our subscription.
And as a second argument to subscribe, I'm going to put in the name of the Q group that I want to join.
So again, this can be any name.
It just needs to be something that kind of makes sense to you and I.
So in this case, maybe I will create a Q group with a name of listener.
Q grew.
Maybe a better format for this would be to name the Q group after the type of service that is joining
it.
So in our case, we've got a Q group right here that is only going to have the copies of the Order service
joining.
So perhaps the better name would be something like Orders Service Q Group or something like that.
If we want to take that approach, then we would put in something like orders service you group that
would work as well.
The only requirement is that we make sure that every different service that tries to join into the skew
group has that same string.
Okay.
So let's now save this.
I'll then go back over to my terminal.
And then back over here, I'm going to once again publish an event.
And now we'll see that it only got sent over to one of these two listeners.
And I can start to send out multiple events and it looks like it's going to alternate between the two
deciding that, hey, first I'm going to send one to this copy of a listener and then over to this listener.
If you are not seeing the same behavior, if it looks like all the events are being sent to just one
listener as opposed to both, that is totally fine as well.
Sometimes that streaming server is going to decide to either do a round robin or in other cases just
send them all to one particular listener.
And there actually are some ways that we can make sure that one listener doesn't always get sent all
of these different events.
That's something we'll take a look at in just a moment.
Okay.
So in total this is creating a Q group.
Again, a Q group is created to make sure that multiple instances of the same service are not all going
to receive the exact same event.
And this is going to make sure that we don't try to do double, triple or quadruple processing on the
same incoming event.
All right.
So still a couple of things for us to learn.
So quick pause right here and I'll see you in just a minute.